Developer Agreement & Policy¶

Developer Agreement¶

Effective: September 30, 2016.

This Twitter Developer Agreement (“Agreement”) is made between you (either an
individual or an entity, referred to herein as “you”) and Twitter, Inc. and
Twitter International Company (collectively, “Twitter”) and governs your access
to and use of the Licensed Material (as defined below).

PLEASE READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY, INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY LINKED TERMS AND CONDITIONS APPEARING OR REFERENCED
BELOW, WHICH ARE HEREBY MADE PART OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT. BY USING THE
LICENSED MATERIAL, YOU ARE AGREEING THAT YOU HAVE READ, AND THAT YOU AGREE TO
COMPLY WITH AND TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND
ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS IN THEIR ENTIRETY WITHOUT LIMITATION OR
QUALIFICATION. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THIS AGREEMENT, THEN YOU MAY
NOT ACCESS OR OTHERWISE USE THE LICENSED MATERIAL. THIS AGREEMENT IS EFFECTIVE
AS OF THE FIRST DATE THAT YOU USE THE LICENSED MATERIAL (“EFFECTIVE DATE”).

IF YOU ARE AN INDIVIDUAL REPRESENTING AN ENTITY, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE
THE APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF SUCH ENTITY.
YOU MAY NOT USE THE LICENSED MATERIAL AND MAY NOT ACCEPT THIS AGREEMENT IF YOU
ARE NOT OF LEGAL AGE TO FORM A BINDING CONTRACT WITH TWITTER, OR YOU ARE BARRED
FROM USING OR RECEIVING THE LICENSED MATERIAL UNDER APPLICABLE LAW.

I. Twitter API and Twitter Content¶

A. Definitions

 1. Content ‒ Tweets, Tweet IDs, Twitter end user profile information, and any
    other data and information made available to you through the Twitter API or
    by any other means authorized by Twitter, and any copies and derivative
    works thereof.
 2. Developer Site ‒ Twitter’s developer site located at https://
    dev.twitter.com.
 3. End Users ‒ Users of your Services, who are bound to enforceable service
    terms with you.
 4. Licensed Material ‒ A collective term for the Twitter API and Content.
 5. Services ‒ Your websites, applications and other offerings that display
    Content or otherwise use the Licensed Material.
 6. Tweet ID ‒ A unique identification number generated for each Tweet.
 7. Tweet ‒ a short-form text and/or multimedia-based posting that is publicly
    displayed on Twitter Services.
 8. Twitter API ‒ The Twitter Application Programming Interface (“API”),
    Software Development Kit (“SDK”) and/or the related documentation, data,
    code, and other materials provided by Twitter with the API, as updated from
    time to time, including without limitation through the Developer Site.
 9. Twitter Marks ‒ The Twitter name, or logos that Twitter makes available to
    you, including via the Developer Site.
10. Twitter Services ‒ Twitter’s offerings and platforms, including without
    limitation, those offered via http://twitter.com and Twitter’s mobile
    application.

B. License from Twitter. Subject to the terms and conditions in this Agreement
(as a condition to the grant below), Twitter hereby grants you and you accept a
non-exclusive, royalty free, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable
license during the Term solely to:

 1. Use the Twitter API to develop and implement your Services;
 2. Copy a reasonable amount of and display the Content on and through your
    Services to End Users, as permitted by this Agreement;
 3. Modify Content only to format it for display on your Services; and
 4. Use and display Twitter Marks, solely to attribute Twitter’s offerings as
    the source of the Content, as set forth herein.

C. Incorporated Terms. Your use of the Licensed Material is further subject to
and governed by the following terms and conditions:

 1. the Twitter Developer Policy located at https://dev.twitter.com/overview/
    terms/policy (“Developer Policy”);
 2. as it relates to your display of any of the Content, the Display
    Requirements located at https://dev.twitter.com/terms/display-requirements
    (“Display Requirements”);
 3. as it relates to your use and display of the Twitter Marks, the Twitter
    Brand Assets and Guidelines located at https://twitter.com/logo (“Brand
    Guidelines”); and
 4. as it relates to taking automated actions on your account, the Automation
    Rules located at https://support.twitter.com/articles/76915 (“Automation
    Rules”).

The Developer Policy, Display Requirements, Brand Guidelines, and Automation
Rules are collectively referred to herein as the “Developer Terms”. You agree
to the Developer Terms, which are hereby incorporated by reference and are
available in hardcopy upon request to Twitter. In the event of a conflict
between the Developer Terms and this Agreement, this Agreement shall control.
None of the Developer Terms expand or extend the license to the Twitter API,
Content or Twitter Marks granted in this Agreement.

II. Restrictions on Use of Licensed Materials¶

 A. Reverse Engineering and other Limitations. You will not or attempt to (and
    will not allow others to) 1) reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble or
    translate the Twitter API, or otherwise attempt to derive source code,
    trade secrets or know-how in or underlying any Twitter API or any portion
    thereof; 2) interfere with, modify, disrupt or disable features or
    functionality of the Twitter API, including without limitation any such
    mechanism used to restrict or control the functionality, or defeat, avoid,
    bypass, remove, deactivate or otherwise circumvent any software protection
    or monitoring mechanisms of the Twitter API; 3) sell, rent, lease,
    sublicense, distribute, redistribute, syndicate, create derivative works
    of, assign or otherwise transfer or provide access to, in whole or in part,
    the Licensed Material to any third party except as expressly permitted
    herein; 4) provide use of the Twitter API on a service bureau, rental or
    managed services basis or permit other individuals or entities to create
    links to the Twitter API or "frame" or "mirror" the Twitter API on any
    other server, or wireless or Internet-based device, or otherwise make
    available to a third party, any token, key, password or other login
    credentials to the Twitter API; or 5) use the Licensed Material for any
    illegal, unauthorized or other improper purposes.
 B. Rate Limits. You will not attempt to exceed or circumvent limitations on
    access, calls and use of the Twitter API ("Rate Limits"), or otherwise use
    the Twitter API in a manner that exceeds reasonable request volume,
    constitutes excessive or abusive usage, or otherwise fails to comply or is
    inconsistent with any part of this Agreement. If you exceed or Twitter
    reasonably believes that you have attempted to circumvent Rate Limits,
    controls to limit use of the Twitter APIs or the terms and conditions of
    this Agreement, then your ability to use the Licensed Materials may be
    temporarily suspended or permanently blocked. Twitter may monitor your use
    of the Twitter API to improve the Twitter Service and to ensure your
    compliance with this Agreement.
 C. Geographic Data. Your license to use Content in this Agreement does not
    allow you to (and you will not allow others to) aggregate, cache, or store
    location data and other geographic information contained in the Content,
    except in conjunction with the Content to which it is attached. Your
    license only allows you to use such location data and geographic
    information to identify the location tagged by the Content. Any use of
    location data or geographic information on a standalone basis or beyond the
    license granted herein is a breach of this Agreement.
 D. Use of Twitter Marks. The Twitter Marks may not be included in or as part
    of your registered corporate name, any of your logos, or any of your
    service or product names. Moreover, you may not create any derivative works
    of the Twitter Marks or use the Twitter Marks in a manner that creates or
    reasonably implies an inaccurate sense of endorsement, sponsorship, or
    association with Twitter. You will not otherwise use business names and/or
    logos in a manner that can mislead, confuse, or deceive users of your
    Services. All use of the Twitter Marks and all goodwill arising out of such
    use, will inure to Twitter’s benefit. You shall not use the Twitter Marks
    except as expressly authorized herein without Twitter’s prior consent. You
    will not remove or alter any proprietary notices or Twitter Marks on the
    Licensed Material.

III. Updates¶

You acknowledge that Twitter may update or modify the Twitter APIs from time to
time, and at its sole discretion (in each instance, an “Update”). You are
required to implement and use the most current version of the Twitter API and
to make any changes to your Services that are required as a result of such
Update, at your sole cost and expense. Updates may adversely affect the manner
in which your Services access or communicate with the Twitter API or display
Content. Your continued access or use of the Twitter APIs following an update
or modification will constitute binding acceptance of the Update.

IV. Ownership and Feedback¶

 A. Ownership. The Licensed Materials are licensed, not sold, and Twitter
    retains and reserves all rights not expressly granted in this Agreement.
    You expressly acknowledge that Twitter, its licensors and its end users
    retain all worldwide right, title and interest in and to the Licensed
    Material and Content, including all rights in patents, trademarks, trade
    names, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how, data (including all
    applications therefor), and all proprietary rights under the laws of the
    United States, any other jurisdiction or any treaty ("IP Rights"). You
    agree not to do anything inconsistent with such ownership, including
    without limitation, challenging Twitter’s ownership of the Twitter Marks,
    challenging the validity of the licenses granted herein, or otherwise
    copying or exploiting the Twitter Marks during or after the termination of
    this Agreement, except as specifically authorized herein. If you acquire
    any rights in the Twitter Marks or any confusingly similar marks, by
    operation of law or otherwise, you will, at no expense to Twitter,
    immediately assign such rights to Twitter.
 B. Feedback. You may provide Twitter with comments concerning the Licensed
    Material, Services or your evaluation and use thereof (collectively, "
    Feedback). You hereby grant Twitter all rights, title and ownership of such
    Feedback (including all intellectual property rights therein), and Twitter
    may use the Feedback for any and all commercial and non-commercial purposes
    with no obligation of any kind to you.

V. Termination¶

Twitter may immediately terminate or suspend this Agreement, any rights granted
herein, and/or your license to the Licensed Materials, at its sole discretion
at any time, for any reason by providing notice to you. You may terminate this
Agreement at any time by ceasing your access to the Twitter API and use of all
Twitter Content. Upon termination of this Agreement, all licenses granted
herein immediately expire and you must cease use of all Licensed Materials. The
parties to this Agreement will not be liable to each other for any damages
resulting solely from termination of this Agreement as permitted under this
Agreement. Sections II, IV, V, VI and VII of this Agreement will survive the
termination of this Agreement.

VI. Confidentiality¶

You may be given access to certain non-public information, software, and
specifications relating to the Licensed Material (“Confidential Information”),
which is confidential and proprietary to Twitter. You may use this Confidential
Information only as necessary in exercising your rights granted in this
Agreement. You may not disclose any of this Confidential Information to any
third party without Twitter’s prior written consent. You agree that you will
protect this Confidential Information from unauthorized use, access, or
disclosure in the same manner that you would use to protect your own
confidential and proprietary information of a similar nature and in no event
with less than a reasonable degree of care.

VII. Other Important Terms¶

 A. User Protection. You will not knowingly: 1) display, distribute, or
    otherwise make available Content to any entity to investigate, track or
    surveil Twitter’s users or their Content, or to obtain information on
    Twitter users or their Content, in a manner that would require a subpoena,
    court order, or other valid legal process or that would otherwise have the
    potential to be inconsistent with our users’ reasonable expectations of
    privacy; or 2) display, distribute or otherwise make available Content to
    any person or entity that you reasonably believe will use such data to
    violate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (located at http://
    www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/), including without limitation Articles 12,
    18, or 19. If law enforcement personnel request information about Twitter
    or its users for the purposes of an ongoing investigation, you may refer
    them to Twitter’s Guidelines for Law Enforcement located at https://t.co/le
    . You will not conduct and your Services will not provide analyses or
    research that isolates a small group of individuals or any single
    individual for any unlawful or discriminatory purposes.
 B. Additional Terms for Permitted Government Use. The Twitter API and Twitter
    Content are "commercial items" as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. 2.101,
    consisting of "commercial computer software" and "commercial computer
    software documentation" as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212. Any
    use, modification, derivative, reproduction, release, performance, display,
    disclosure or distribution of the Twitter API or Twitter Content by any
    government entity is prohibited, except as expressly permitted by the terms
    of this Agreement. Additionally, any use by U.S. government entities must
    be in accordance with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through
    227.7202-4. If you use the Twitter API or Twitter Content in your official
    capacity as an employee or representative of a U.S., state or local
    government entity and you are legally unable to accept the indemnity,
    jurisdiction, venue or other clauses herein, then those clauses do not
    apply to such entity, but only to the extent as required by applicable law.
    For the purpose of this provision, contractor/manufacturer is Twitter,
    Inc., 1355 Market Street, Suite 900, San Francisco, California 94103.
 C. Compliance with Laws; Export and Import. Each party will comply with all
    applicable foreign, federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations.
    The Licensed Material is subject to U.S. export laws and may be subject to
    import and use laws of the country where it is delivered or used. You agree
    to abide by these laws. Under these laws, the Licensed Material may not be
    sold, leased, downloaded, moved, exported, re-exported, or transferred
    across borders without a license, or approval from the relevant government
    authority, to any country or to any foreign national restricted by these
    laws, including countries embargoed by the U.S. Government (currently Cuba,
    Iran, North Korea, Northern Sudan and Syria); or to any restricted or
    denied end-user including, but not limited to, any person or entity
    prohibited by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control; or for any
    restricted end-use. You will maintain throughout the Term all rights and
    licenses that are required with respect to your Services.
 D. Warranty Disclaimer. THE LICENSED MATERIAL IS PROVIDED TO YOU “AS IS”,
    “WHERE IS”, WITH ALL FAULTS AND EACH PARTY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES,
    WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT
    LIMITATION WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A
    PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS ARISING OUT OF THIS
    AGREEMENT, COURSE OF DEALING OR USAGE OF TRADE. TWITTER DOES NOT WARRANT
    THAT THE LICENSED MATERIAL OR ANY OTHER TWITTER PRODUCT OR SERVICE PROVIDED
    HEREUNDER WILL MEET ANY OF YOUR REQUIREMENTS OR THAT USE OF SUCH LICENSED
    MATERIAL OR OTHER PRODUCTS OR SERVICES WILL BE ERROR-FREE, UNINTERRUPTED,
    VIRUS-FREE OR SECURE. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY MAY NOT BE VALID IN SOME
    JURISDICTIONS AND YOU MAY HAVE WARRANTY RIGHTS UNDER LAW WHICH MAY NOT BE
    WAIVED OR DISCLAIMED. ANY SUCH WARRANTY EXTENDS ONLY FOR THIRTY (30) DAYS
    FROM THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT (UNLESS SUCH LAW PROVIDES
    OTHERWISE).
 E. Indemnification. You shall defend Twitter against any and all actions,
    demands, claims and suits (including without limitation product liability
    claims), and indemnify and hold Twitter harmless from any and all
    liabilities, damages and costs (including without limitation reasonable
    attorneys’ fees) to the extent arising out of: (i) your use of the Licensed
    Material in any manner that is inconsistent with this Agreement; or (ii)
    the performance, promotion, sale or distribution of your Services. In the
    event Twitter seeks indemnification or defense from you under this
    provision, Twitter will promptly notify you in writing of the claim(s)
    brought against Twitter for which it seeks indemnification or defense.
    Twitter reserves the right, at its option and sole discretion, to assume
    full control of the defense of claims with legal counsel of its choice. You
    may not enter into any third party agreement, which would, in any manner
    whatsoever, affect the rights of Twitter, constitute an admission of fault
    by Twitter or bind Twitter in any manner, without the prior written consent
    of Twitter. In the event Twitter assumes control of the defense of such
    claim, Twitter shall not settle any such claim requiring payment from you
    without your prior written approval.
 F. Limitation of Liability. IN NO EVENT WILL TWITTER BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY
    END USERS FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO USE, DATA, BUSINESS,
    GOODWILL OR PROFITS ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. IN
    ANY CASE, TWITTER’S AGGREGATE LIABILITY FOR ANY AND ALL CLAIMS UNDER THIS
    AGREEMENT WILL NOT EXCEED $50.00 USD. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS, EXCLUSIONS
    AND DISCLAIMERS SHALL APPLY REGARDLESS OF WHETHER SUCH LIABILITY ARISES
    FROM ANY CLAIM BASED UPON CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE),
    STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT THE PARTY HAS BEEN
    ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGE. INSOFAR AS APPLICABLE
    LAW PROHIBITS ANY LIMITATION ON LIABILITY HEREIN, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT
    SUCH LIMITATION WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY MODIFIED, BUT ONLY TO THE EXTENT SO
    AS TO MAKE THE LIMITATION COMPLIANT WITH APPLICABLE LAW. THE PARTIES AGREE
    THAT THE LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITIES SET FORTH HEREIN ARE AGREED ALLOCATIONS
    OF RISK AND SUCH LIMITATIONS WILL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF
    ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.
 G. Updates. Twitter may update or modify this Agreement, Developer Terms, and
    other terms and conditions, from time to time at its sole discretion by
    posting the changes on this site or by otherwise notifying you (such notice
    may be via email). You acknowledge that these updates and modifications may
    adversely affect how your Service accesses or communicates with the Twitter
    API. If any change is unacceptable to you, your only recourse is to cease
    all use of the Licensed Material. Your continued access or use of the
    Licensed Material will constitute binding acceptance of the such updates
    and modifications.
 H. Miscellaneous. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the
    parties with respect to the subject matter and supersedes and merges all
    prior proposals, understandings and contemporaneous communications. Any
    modification to this Agreement must be in a writing signed by both you and
    Twitter, Inc. You may not assign any of the rights or obligations granted
    hereunder, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily or by operation of law,
    contract, merger (whether you are the surviving or disappearing entity),
    stock or asset sale, consolidation, dissolution, through government action
    or otherwise, except with the prior written consent of Twitter,
    Inc. Twitter, Inc. is authorized to sign modifications and consents on
    behalf of Twitter International Company, an Irish company responsible for
    the information of Twitter users who live outside the United States. Any
    attempted assignment in violation of this paragraph is null and void, and
    Twitter may terminate this Agreement. This Agreement does not create or
    imply any partnership, agency or joint venture. This Agreement will be
    governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
    California, without regard to or application of conflicts of law rules or
    principles. All claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement will be
    brought exclusively in the federal or state courts of San Francisco County,
    California, USA, and you consent to personal jurisdiction in those courts.
    Despite the foregoing, you agree that money damages would be an inadequate
    remedy for Twitter in the event of a breach or threatened breach of a
    provision of this Agreement protecting Twitter’s intellectual property or
    Confidential Information, and that in the event of such a breach or threat,
    Twitter, in addition to any other remedies to which it is entitled, is
    entitled to such preliminary or injunctive relief (including an order
    prohibiting Company from taking actions in breach of such provisions),
    without the need for posting bond, and specific performance as may be
    appropriate. The parties agree that neither the United Nations Convention
    on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, nor the Uniform Computer
    Information Transaction Act (UCITA) shall apply to this Agreement,
    regardless of the states in which the parties do business or are
    incorporated. No waiver by Twitter of any covenant or right under this
    Agreement will be effective unless memorialized in a writing duly
    authorized by Twitter. If any part of this Agreement is determined to be
    invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
    provision will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible and the
    remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and
    effect.

Developer Policy¶

Effective: September 30, 2016.

In addition to the Developer Agreement, this Developer Policy (“Policy”)
provides rules and guidelines for developers who interact with Twitter’s
ecosystem of applications, services, website, web pages and content (“Twitter
Services”). Policy violations are also considered violations of the Developer
Agreement. Take a look at the Definitions for the meaning of capitalized words
used in this Policy.  These policies may be changed from time to time without
notice. Please check here for any updates.

  • I. Guiding Principles
      □ A. A Few Key Points
      □ B. Maintain the Integrity of Twitter’s Products
      □ C. Respect Users’ Control and Privacy
      □ D. Clearly Identify Your Service
      □ E. Keep Twitter Spam Free
      □ F. Be a Good Partner to Twitter
      □ G. Avoid Replicating the Core Twitter Experience
      □ H. Engage in Appropriate Commercial Use
  • II. Rules for Specific Twitter Services or Features
      □ A. Twitter Login
      □ B. Social Updates
      □ C. Twitter Identity
      □ D. Twitter Cards
      □ E. Twitter for Websites
      □ F. Definitions

I. Guiding Principles¶

A. A Few Key Points¶

 1. Keep any API keys or other access credentials private and use only as
    permitted.
 2. Respect our requirements on how to display and interact with users’
    content.
 3. If your application will need more than 1 million user tokens, you must
    contact us about your Twitter API access, as you may be subject to
    additional terms.
 4. Twitter may monitor your use of the Twitter API to improve the Twitter
    Services, examine commercial use and ensure your compliance with this
    Policy.
 5. Remember, Twitter may suspend or revoke access to the Twitter API if we
    believe you are in violation of this Policy. Do not apply for or register
    additional API tokens if Twitter has suspended your account. Instead,
    contact us.

B. Maintain the Integrity of Twitter’s Products¶

 1. Follow the Display Requirements and Twitter Rules. If your Service
    facilitates or induces users to violate the Twitter Rules, you must figure
    out how to prevent the abuse or Twitter may suspend or terminate your
    access to the Twitter API. We’ve provided guidance in our Abuse Prevention
    and Security help page.
 2. If your Service submits content to Twitter that includes a Twitter
    username, submit the correct Twitter username (“@username”).
 3. Promptly respond to Content changes reported through the Twitter API, such
    as deletions or the public/protected status of Tweets.
 4. Do not modify, translate or delete a portion of the Content.
 5. Maintain the features and functionality of Content and Twitter API. Do not
    interfere with, intercept, disrupt, filter, or disable any features of
    Twitter or the Twitter API, including the Content of embedded Tweets and
    embedded timelines.
 6. Only surface Twitter activity as it surfaced on Twitter. For example, your
    Service should execute the unlike and delete actions by removing all
    relevant Content, not by publicly displaying to other users that the Tweet
    is no longer liked or has been deleted.
 7. Do not exceed or circumvent limitations on access, calls, sharing, privacy
    settings, or use permitted in this Policy, or as otherwise set forth on the
    Developer Site, or communicated to you by Twitter.
 8. Do not remove or alter any proprietary notices or marks on Content or the
    Twitter API.
 9. Do not (and do not allow others to) aggregate, cache, or store location
    data and other geographic information contained in the Content, except as
    part of a Tweet. Any use of location data or geographic information on a
    standalone basis is prohibited.

C. Respect Users’ Control and Privacy¶

 1. Get the user’s express consent before you do any of the following:
     a. Take any actions on a user’s behalf, including posting Content,
        following/unfollowing other users, modifying profile information, or
        adding hashtags or other data to the user’s Tweets. A user
        authenticating through your Service does not constitute user consent.
     b. Republish Content accessed by means other than via the Twitter API or
        other Twitter tools.
     c. Use a user’s Content to promote a commercial product or service, either
        on a commercial durable good or as part of an advertisement.
     d. Store non-public Content such as direct messages or other private or
        confidential information.
     e. Share or publish protected Content, private or confidential
        information.
 2. Do not (and do not permit others to) associate the Content with any person,
    household, device, browser, or other individual identifier, unless you or
    the entity on whose sole behalf you make such an association do so (a) with
    the express opt-in consent of the applicable individual; or (b) based
    solely on publicly available data and/or data provided directly by the
    applicable individual that the individual would reasonably expect to be
    used for that purpose.
 3. Take all reasonable efforts to do the following, provided that when
    requested by Twitter, you must promptly take such actions:
     a. Delete Content that Twitter reports as deleted or expired;
     b. Change treatment of Content that Twitter reports is subject to changed
        sharing options (e.g., become protected); and
     c. Modify Content that Twitter reports has been modified.
 4. If your Service allows users to post Content to Twitter, then, before
    publishing, show the user exactly what will be published, including whether
    any geotags will be added to the Content.
 5. If your Service allows users to post Content to your Service and Twitter,
    then, before publishing to the Service:
     a. Explain how you will use the Content;
     b. Obtain proper permission to use the Content; and
     c. Continue to use such Content in accordance with this Policy in
        connection with the Content.
 6. Display your Service’s privacy policy to users before download,
    installation or sign up of your application. Your privacy policy must be
    consistent with all applicable laws, and be no less protective of end users
    than Twitter’s Privacy Policy located at http://twitter.com/privacy. You
    must comply with your privacy policy, which must clearly disclose the
    information you collect from users, how you use and share that information
    (including with Twitter), and how users can contact you with inquiries and
    requests regarding their information. If for any reason you are unable to
    comply with your privacy policy or any privacy requirement of the Developer
    Agreement or Policy, you must promptly inform Twitter and take reasonable
    and appropriate steps to remedy any non-compliance, or cease your access to
    the Twitter API and use of all Twitter Content.
 7. If your Service uses cookies, disclose in your privacy policy:
     a. Whether third parties collect user information on your Service and
        across other websites or online services;
     b. Information about user options for cookie management and whether you
        honor the Do Not Track setting in supporting web browsers.
 8. If your Service adds location information to users’ Tweets:
     a. Disclose when you add location information, whether as a geotag or
        annotations data, and whether you add a place or specific coordinates.
     b. Comply with Geo Developers Guidelines if your application allows users
        to Tweet with their location.
 9. Do not store Twitter passwords.

D. Clearly Identify Your Service¶

 1. Make sure users understand your identity and the source and purpose of your
    Service. For example:
     a. Don’t use a name or logo that falsely implies you or your company is
        related to another business or person.
     b. Don’t use a shortened URL for your Service that attempts to mask the
        destination site
     c. Don’t use a URL for your Service that directs users to
         i. a site that is unrelated to your Service
        ii. a site that encourages users to violate the Twitter Rules
        iii. a spam or malware site.
 2. Do not replicate, frame, or mirror the Twitter website or its design.

E. Keep Twitter Spam Free¶

 1. Follow the Abuse and Spam rules here.
 2. Comply with the automation rules if your Service performs automatic
    actions.
 3. Do not do any of the following:
     a. Mass-register applications.
     b. Create tokens/applications to sell names, prevent others from using
        names, or other commercial use.
     c. Use third-party content feeds to update and maintain accounts under
        those third parties’ names.
     d. Name squat by submitting multiple applications with the same function
        under different names.
     e. Publish links to malicious content.
     f. Publish pornographic or obscene images to user profile images and
        background images.

F. Be a Good Partner to Twitter¶

 1. Follow the guidelines for using Tweets in broadcast if you display Tweets
    offline.
 2. If you provide Content to third parties, including downloadable datasets of
    Content or an API that returns Content, you will only distribute or allow
    download of Tweet IDs and/or User IDs.
     a. You may, however, provide export via non-automated means (e.g.,
        download of spreadsheets or PDF files, or use of a “save as” button) of
        up to 50,000 public Tweets and/or User Objects per user of your
        Service, per day.
     b. Any Content provided to third parties via non-automated file download
        remains subject to this Policy.
 3. Use and display Twitter Marks solely to identify Twitter as the source of
    Content.
 4. Comply with Twitter Brand Assets and Guidelines.
 5. Do not do any of the following:
     a. Use a single application API key for multiple use cases or multiple
        application API keys for the same use case.
     b. Charge a premium above your Service’s standard data and usage rates for
        access to Content via SMS or USSD.
     c. Sell or receive monetary or virtual compensation for Tweet actions or
        the placement of Tweet actions on your Service, such as, but not
        limited to follow, retweet, like, and reply.
     d. Do not use, access or analyze the Twitter API to monitor or measure the
        availability, performance, functionality, usage statistics or results
        of Twitter Services or for any other benchmarking or competitive
        purposes, including without limitation, monitoring or measuring:
         i. the responsiveness of Twitter Services; or
        ii. aggregate Twitter user metrics such as total number of active
            users, accounts, user engagements or account engagements.
     e. Use Twitter Content, by itself or bundled with third party data, to
        target users with advertising outside of the Twitter platform,
        including without limitation on other advertising networks, via data
        brokers, or through any other advertising or monetization services.
     f. Use Twitter Marks, or Twitter Certified Products Program badges, or
        similar marks or names in a manner that creates a false sense of
        endorsement, sponsorship, or association with Twitter.
     g. Use the Twitter Verified Account badge, Verified Account status, or any
        other enhanced user categorization on Twitter Content other than that
        reported to you by Twitter through the API.

G. Avoid Replicating the Core Twitter Experience¶

 1. Twitter discourages online services from replicating Twitter Service’s core
    user experience or features.
 2. The following rules apply solely to Services or applications that attempt
    to replicate Twitter’s core user experience:
     a. You must obtain our permission to have more than 100,000 user tokens,
        and you may be subject to additional terms.
     b. Use the Twitter API as provided by Twitter for functionalities in your
        Service that are substantially similar to a Twitter Service feature and
        present this to your users as the default option.
     c. Display a prominent link or button in your Service that directs new
        users to Twitter’s sign-up functionality.
     d. Do not do the following:
         i. Pay, or offer to pay, third parties for distribution. This includes
            offering compensation for downloads (other than transactional fees)
            or other mechanisms of traffic acquisition.
        ii. Arrange for your Service to be pre-installed on any device,
            promoted as a "zero-rated" service, or marketed as part of a
            specialized data plan.
        iii. Use Twitter Content or other data collected from users to create
            or maintain a separate status update or social network database or
            service.

H. Engage in Appropriate Commercial Use¶

 1. Advertising Around Twitter Content
     a. You may advertise around and on sites that display Tweets, but you may
        not place any advertisements within the Twitter timeline on your
        Service other than Twitter Ads or advertisements made available through
        the official TwitterKit integration with MoPub. Access to MoPub ads
        through TwitterKit requires a MoPub supply account and is subject to
        MoPub terms of service & policies.
     b. Your advertisements cannot resemble or reasonably be confused by users
        as a Tweet.
     c. You may advertise in close proximity to the Twitter timeline (e.g.,
        banner ads above or below timeline), but there must be a clear
        separation between Twitter content and your advertisements.
 2. Compensation
     a. When Content is the primary basis of an advertising or sponsorship sale
        you make, you must compensate Twitter, recoupable against any fees
        payment to Twitter for data licensing.
     b. Twitter reserves the right to serve advertising via Twitter APIs
        (“Twitter Ads”). If you decide to serve Twitter Ads once we start
        delivering them, we will share a portion of advertising revenue with
        you in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.

II. Rules for Specific Twitter Services or Features¶

A. Twitter Login¶

 1. Present users with easy to find options to log into and out of Twitter, for
    example, via the OAuth protocol or Twitter Kit.
 2. Provide users without a Twitter account the opportunity to create a new
    Twitter account.
 3. Display the Connect with Twitter option at least as prominently as the most
    prominent of any other third party social networking sign-up or sign-in
    marks and branding appearing on your Service.

B. Social Updates¶

 1. If you allow users to create social updates from your own social service or
    a third party social networking, micro-blogging, or status update provider
    integrated into your Service ("Update"), you must display a prominent
    option to publish that content to Twitter.
 2. If Updates are longer than 140 characters or not text, you must display a
    prominent link to publish that content to Twitter and:
     a. URLs must direct users to the page where that content is displayed. You
        may require users to sign in to access that page, but the content must
        not otherwise be restricted from being viewed.
     b. URLs must not direct users to interstitial or intermediate pages.

C. Twitter Identity¶

 1. Once a user has authenticated via Connect with Twitter via your Service,
    you must clearly display the user’s Twitter identity via your Service.
    Twitter identity includes visible display of the user’s avatar, Twitter
    user name and the Twitter bird mark.
 2. Displays of the user’s followers on your Service must clearly show that the
    relationship is associated with the Twitter Service.

D. Twitter Cards¶

 1. Develop your Card to have the same quality experience across all platforms
    where Cards are displayed.
 2. If your Service provides a logged-in experience, the experience prior to a
    user’s login must be of equivalent quality and user value.
 3. Mark your Card as ‘true’ for sensitive media if such media can be
    displayed.
 4. Use HTTPS for hosting all assets within your Card.
 5. For video and audio content:
     a. Default to ‘sound off’ for videos that automatically play content.
     b. Include stop or pause controls.
 6. Do not do any of the following:
     a. Exceed or circumvent Twitter’s limitations placed on any Cards,
        including the Card’s intended use.
     b. Attach the App Card to a user’s Tweet, unless the user is explicitly
        promoting or referring to the app in the Tweet.
     c. Place third-party sponsored content within Cards without Twitter’s
        prior approval.
     d. Include content or actions within your Card that are not contextually
        relevant to the user’s Tweet text and Tweet entities, such as URLs and
        media.
     e. Generate active mixed content browser warnings.
     f. Attach monetary incentives or transactions (including virtual currency)
        to activities that occur within the Card or on Twitter from your Card.
     g. Apply for Cards access for domains you do not manage to prevent others
        from registering or utilizing Cards on those domains.
       
        E. Twitter for Websites¶

         1. If you expect your embedded Tweets and embedded timelines to exceed
            10 million daily impressions, you must contact us about your
            Twitter API access, as you may be subject to additional terms.
         2. If you use TFW widgets, you must ensure that an end user is
            provided with clear and comprehensive information about, and
            consents to, the storing and accessing of cookies or other
            information on the end user’s device where providing such
            information and obtaining such consent is required by law.
         3. If you operate a Service targeted to children under 13, you must
            opt out of tailoring Twitter in any Twitter for Websites button,
            embedded Tweet, or embedded timeline on your Service by setting the
            opt-out parameter to be true.
       
        F. Definitions¶

         1. Content ‒ Tweets, Tweet IDs, Twitter end user profile information,
            and any other data and information made available to you through
            the Twitter API or by any other means authorized by Twitter, and
            any copies and derivative works thereof.
         2. Developer Site ‒ Twitter’s developer site located at https://
            dev.twitter.com.
         3. Tweet ‒ A short-form and/or multimedia-based posting that is
            publicly displayed on Twitter Services.
         4. Tweet ID ‒ A unique identification number generated for each Tweet.
         5. Twitter API ‒ The Twitter Application Programming Interface
            (“API”), Software Development Kit (“SDK”) and/or the related
            documentation, data, code, and other materials provided by Twitter,
            as updated from time to time, including without limitation through
            the Developer Site.
         6. Twitter Marks ‒ The Twitter name, or logos that Twitter makes
            available to you, including via the Developer Site.
         7. Service - Your websites, applications and other offerings that
            display or otherwise use Content.
         8. User ID - Unique identification numbers generated for each User
            that do not contain any personally identifiable information such as
            Twitter usernames or users’ names.

        Solutions
