The Nation's two crime measures

U.S. Department of Justice
May  2003, NCJ 122705

The U.S. Department of Justice administers two
statistical programs to measure the magnitude,
nature, and impact of crime in the Nation: the
Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Program and the
National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS).  Each
of these programs produces valuable information
about aspects of the Nation's crime problem. 
Because the UCR and NCVS programs are conducted
for different purposes, use different methods, and
focus on somewhat different aspects of crime, the
information they  produce together provides a more
comprehensive panorama of the Nation's crime
problem than either could produce alone.


Uniform Crime Reports 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)

The FBI's UCR program, which began in 1929,
collects information on the following crimes
reported to law enforcement authorities: homicide,
forcible rape, robbery, aggravated assault,
burglary, larceny-theft, motor vehicle theft, and
arson.  Arrests are reported for 21 additional
crime categories.

The UCR data are compiled from monthly law
enforcement reports or individual crime incident
records transmitted directly to the FBI or to
centralized state agencies that then report to the
FBI.  Each  report submitted to the UCR Program is
examined thoroughly for reasonableness, accuracy,
and deviations that may indicate errors. Large
variations in crime levels may indicate modified
records  procedures, incomplete reporting, or
changes in a jurisdiction's boundaries.  To
identify any unusual fluctuations in an agency's
crime counts, monthly reports are compared with
previous  submissions of the agency and with those
for similar agencies.

In 2003, law enforcement agencies active in the
UCR Program  represented approximately 291 million
U.S. inhabitants--93.0 percent of the total
population.

The UCR Program provides crime counts for the
Nation as a whole, as well as for regions, states,
counties, cities, and towns.  This permits studies
among neighboring jurisdictions and among those
with similar populations and other common
characteristics.

UCR findings for each calendar year are published
in a preliminary release in the spring, followed
by a detailed annual report, Crime in the United
States, issued in the following calendar year.  In
addition to crime counts and trends, this report
includes data on crimes cleared, persons arrested
(age, sex, and race), law enforcement personnel
(including the number of sworn officers killed or 
assaulted), and the characteristics of homicides
(including age, sex, and race of victims and
offenders, victim-offender relationships, weapons
used, and circumstances surrounding the
homicides).  Other special reports are also
available from the UCR Program. 

Following a 5-year redesign effort, the UCR
Program is currently being converted to the more
comprehensive and detailed National Incident-Based
Reporting System (NIBRS).  NIBRS will provide 
detailed information about each criminal incident
in 22 broad  categories of offenses.


National Crime Victimization Survey 
Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS)

The Bureau of Justice Statistics' NCVS, which
began in 1973, provides a detailed picture of
crime incidents, victims, and trends. After a
substantial period of research, in 1993 the survey
completed an intensive methodological redesign.
The redesign was undertaken to improve the
questions used to uncover crime, update the survey
methods, and broaden the scope of crimes measured.
The redesigned survey collects detailed
information on the frequency and  nature of the
crimes of rape, sexual assault, personal robbery,
aggravated and simple assault, household burglary,
theft, and motor vehicle theft.  It does not
measure homicide or commercial crimes (such as
burglaries of stores).

Two times a year, U.S. Census Bureau personnel 
interview household members in a nationally 
representative sample of approximately
42,000 households (about 75,000 people).
Approximately 150,000 interviews of persons
age 12 or older are conducted annually.
Households stay in the sample for three years.  
New households are rotated into the sample on 
an ongoing basis.

The NCVS collects information on crimes suffered
by individuals and households, whether or not
those crimes were reported to law enforcement. It
estimates the proportion of each crime type 
reported to law enforcement, and it summarizes the
reasons that victims give for reporting or not
reporting.

The survey provides information about victims
(age, sex, race,ethnicity, marital status, income,
and educational level), offenders (sex, race,
approximate age, and victim-offender
relationship), and the crimes (time and place of
occurrence, use of weapons, nature of injury, and
economic consequences). Questions also cover the
experiences of victims with the criminal justice
system, self-protective measures used by victims,
and possible substance abuse by offenders.
Supplements are added periodically to the survey
to obtain detailed information on topics like
school crime.
    
The first data from the redesigned NCVS were
published in a BJS bulletin in June 1995.  BJS
publication of NCVS data includes Criminal
Victimization in the United States, an annual
report that covers the broad range of detailed
information collected by the NCVS.  BJS publishes
detailed reports on topics such as crime against
women, urban crime, and gun use in crime.  The
NCVS  and UCR data files are archived at the
National Archive of Criminal  Justice Data at the
University of Michigan to enable researchers  to
perform independent analysis.


Comparing UCR and NCVS

Because the NCVS was designed to complement the
UCR program, the two programs share many
similarities.  As much as their different
collection methods permit, the two measure the
same subset of serious crimes, defined alike. 
Both programs cover rape, robbery, aggravated
assault, burglary, theft, and motor vehicle theft. 
Rape, robbery, theft, and motor vehicle theft are
defined  virtually identically by both the UCR and
NCVS. (While rape is  defined analogously, the UCR
Crime Index measures the crime against women only,
and the NCVS measures it against both sexes.)

There are also significant differences between the
two programs.  First, the two programs were
created to serve different purposes.  The UCR
Program's primary objective is to provide a
reliable set of criminal justice statistics for
law enforcement administration, operation, and
management.  The NCVS was established to provide
previously unavailable information about crime
(including crime not reported to police), victims,
and offenders. 

Second, the two programs measure an overlapping
but non-identical set of crimes.  The NCVS
includes crimes both reported and not reported to
law enforcement.  The NCVS excludes, but the UCR
includes, homicide, arson, commercial crimes, and
crimes against children under age 12.  The UCR
captures crimes reported to law enforcement, but
it excludes sexual assaults and simple  assaults
from the Crime Index.

Third, because of methodology, the NCVS and UCR
definitions of some crimes differ.  For example,
the UCR defines burglary as the unlawful entry or
attempted entry of a structure to commit a felony
or theft.  The NCVS, not wanting to ask victims to
ascertain  offender motives, defines burglary as
the entry or attempted entry of a residence by a
person who had no right to be there.   

Fourth, for property crimes (burglary, theft and
motor vehicle theft), the two programs calculate
crime rates using different bases.  The UCR rates
for these crimes are per-capita (number of crimes
per 100,000 persons), whereas the NCVS rates for
these crimes are per-household (number of crimes
per 1,000 households).  Because the number of
households may not grow at the same rate each year
as the total population, trend data for rates of
property crimes measured by the two programs may
not be comparable.

In addition, some differences in the data from the
two programs may result from sampling variation in
the NCVS and from estimating for nonresponse in
the UCR.  The NCVS estimates are derived from
interviewing a sample and are therefore subject to
a margin of error.  Rigorous statistical methods
are used to calculate confidence intervals around
all survey estimates.  Trend data in NCVS reports
are described as genuine only if there is at least
a 90% certainty that the measured changes are not
the result of sampling variation.  The UCR data
are based on the actual counts of  offenses
reported by law enforcement jurisdictions.  In
some  circumstances, UCR data are estimated for
nonparticipating  jurisdictions or those reporting
partial data.

Each program has unique strengths. The UCR
provides a measure of the number of crimes
reported to law enforcement agencies throughout
the country.  The UCR's Supplemental Homicide
Reports provide the most reliable, timely data on
the extent and  nature of homicides in the Nation. 
The NCVS is the primary source of information on
the characteristics of criminal victimization and 
on the number and types of crimes not reported to
law enforcement authorities.

By understanding the strengths and limitations of
each program,  it is possible to use the UCR and
NCVS to achieve a greater  understanding of crime
trends and the nature of crime in the United
States.  For example, changes in police
procedures, shifting  attitudes towards crime and
police, and other societal changes  can affect the
extent to which people report and law enforcement 
agencies record crime.  NCVS and UCR data can be
used in  concert to explore why trends in reported
and police-recorded  crime may differ.  

Apparent discrepancies between statistics from the
two programs can usually be accounted for by their
definitional and procedural differences or
resolved by comparing NCVS sampling variations
(confidence intervals) of those crimes said to
have been reported to police with UCR statistics.  

For most types of crimes measured by both the UCR
and NCVS, analysts familiar with the programs can
exclude from analysis those aspects of crime not
common to both. Resulting long-term trend-lines
can be brought into close concordance. The impact
of such adjustments is most striking for robbery,
burglary, and motor  vehicle theft, whose
definitions most closely coincide.

With robbery, annual victimization rates based
only on NCVS  robberies reported to the police are
possible. It is also possible to remove from
analysis UCR robberies of commercial
establishments such as gas stations, convenience
stores, and banks.  When the resulting NCVS police
reported robbery rates are compared to UCR
non-commercial robbery rates, the results reveal
closely  corresponding long-term trends. 

(End of file)

revised 5/21/03 mz
 